# Ganesh-Project
Immediate Rescue Operation for the natural calamities survivor based on Real Data

Every year millions of people lose their life in natural disaster. About 150 major natural disasters affected millions of people worldwide in 2015. Most of the people have lost their life as they could not respond it in the correct manner. Life of people are at stake after the disaster hit certain region.  Let’s take an example of earthquake. Millions of people were affected in recent earthquakes in Nepal, Indonesia and other countries. Disasters can affect any part of the world at any time.

Recently Facebook has made a system to allow its users to mark them SAFE and UNSAFE during the earthquake(also other natural calamities).  The concept of my project is to add few more important questions including safe/unsafe. For example :

1) GPS Location of the survivor:- The GPS location of the survivors can be used to track the survivor safety from nearest earthquake epicenteres and suggest the nearest hostpitals and open areas like parks, playgrounds and so on. Also provide safety tips to users after they submit their response.

2) Number of other survivors along with him/her:- Number of survivors or casualties to get the actual number of people affected by the earthquake, not the census data(because its not necessary that all people recorded in census in particualar zone or district is currently present there)

After the immediate collection of real data from the endangered zone, Government and Facebook collboratively, can conduct their rapid rescue operation considering those data and  available resources and rescue team.

The figure in this project is the plot for Saptari district of Nepal which shows the low, high and moderate risk of natural calamities like flood in different VDCs in the district. The plot has been generated by ArcGis tool. I have used the disaster preparedness data from link below:
http://un.org.np/page/list/Preparedness2011/key%20document
